Rewrite design protection sections (#38)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/defenses/design-protections/subresource-protections.md

menu = "main"
+++

> The fundamental idea behind designing protections for subresources is that subresources cannot be targeted by XS-Leaks if the attacker cannot cause them to return any user data. If implemented correctly, this can be a very strong defense though it is likely to be very time consuming to implement. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fundamental idea behind designing protections for subresources is that subresources cannot be targeted by XS-Leaks if the attacker cannot cause them to return any user data. If implemented correctly, this can be a very strong defense though it is likely to be tough to implement and could negatively impact the user experience. 
```

I am relating UX to broken bookmarks, links, or needing to click to confirm.

{{< hint warning >}}
It can be very effective to deploy this on any specific resources that are known to be especially senstive to XS-Leaks. But, due to the challenges of deploying this protection universally, applications are encouraged to deploy [opt-in web platform security features]({{< ref "../_index.md" >}}) as the default approach.
{{< /hint >}}

## Token Based Protections

A strong protection for subresources can be achieved by including a user specific token in every request. This protects against most XS-Leak techniques if implemented correctly. The idea is that in order to verify a request for a resource as being legitimate, a token must be included. This token must be provided to the client in some way that an attacker would not be able to cause it to be included in their own requests. 

{{< hint info >}}

> Suppose there is some search bar on an application. When the user loads the main page, the server includes a token in the body of the page. When the user searches for something, a request is made to `/search?query=...&token=$SECURE_TOKEN`. The backend verifies that the provided token is valid for the current user. If it is not valid, the request is immediately rejected. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose there is a search bar on an application. 

1. When the user loads the main page, the server includes a secure token somewhere in the body of the page. 
2. When the user searches for something, a request is made to `/search?query=<QUERY>&token=<SECURE_TOKEN>`.  
3. The backend verifies that the provided token is valid for the current user. 
4. If it is not valid, the request is rejected. 
```

Visual improvements.

> In this scenario, there is no way for an attacker to trigger any requests to the endpoint because they cannot obtain a valid token for a given user. Note that this relies on it not being possible for an attacker to obtain or forge a token for other users. If they can do so, this is not effective. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario, there is no way for an attacker to trigger any requests to the endpoint because they cannot obtain a valid token for a given user. 

{{< hint good >}}
That this relies on the assumption that the attacker is unable to obtain or forge a token for other users. If they can do so, the protection would be ineffective. 
{{< /hint >}}

```

Author: Changed to a warning hint since this a potential problem. But :+1:
